Skills
Programming: Python (NumPy, Pandas, TensorFlow, PyTorch, scikit-learn, pandas and etc.), R (ggplot2, skinny, Rcurl, tidyverse, plotly and etc.), SQL, HDFS, Java, C(Some Knowledge), Linux, Git, Docker, EC2, MongoDB, HDFS, Spark, HTML.
Languages: Mandarin (Native), English (Fluent).
Education
University of Southern California — Master of Science in Applied Data Science                               Jan. 2023 – Jun. 2024(Expected)
University of California, Davis — Bachelor of Science in Statistics, Machine Learning                                        Jul. 2017 – Jun. 2022
Major GPA: 3.80/4.00
Work Experiences
Newland Digital Technology Co.,ltd. (000997,SZ) (Fuzhou, China)                                                                    Dec. 2020 – Mar. 2021
AI Engineer Intern | Python, TensorFlow, Caffe, Linux, Docker, Computer Vision, Object Detection
Worked collaboratively with a team of 6 engineers on multiple projects, including smart store, garbage classification, and facial recognition.
Leveraged Python to augment image data, resulting in a 3% increase in model accuracy.
Demonstrated a strong understanding of deep learning frameworks by reading and implementing YOLOv3's output layer, enabling local testing and reducing the time required for fine-tuning.
Individually trained and deployed 4 models for demonstration purposes at the Fourth Digital China Summit.
Developed comprehensive training, deployment, and testing procedures that were adopted by the department.
Collectively prototyped existing projects using TensorFlow for updating our products.
Mentored and trained 2 new interns to ensure smooth onboarding and integration into the team.
Jeeshow Technology Pty Ltd, (Fuzhou, China)                                                                            Jun. 2018 – Aug. 2018
Web Developer Intern | JavaScript, Web Development, Git
Developed a web application that allowed service workers to check their orders and receive payments, reducing workers’ time in obtaining orders.
Collaborated with other team members using Git for version control.
Research Experiences
University of California, Davis (Davis, California)                                                                                                 Jan. 2022 – Jun. 2022
Student Researcher | TensorFlow, Python
Supervised by Ph.D. Candidate Zitong Zhao in the Department of Physics
Developed feature engineering techniques that transformed complex molecular structures into machine-readable formats suitable training simple deep learning algorithms, and performed experiments; The final result achieved 93% test accuracy.
Machine Learning-based defect identification method at the c-Si/a-Si:H interface (IEEE, Second Author).
University of California, Davis (Davis, California)                                                                                               Dec. 2019 – Mar. 2020
Student Researcher | R, ggplot2, Scikit-learn, Data Visualization, Regression, Time Series Analysis.
Supervised by Dr. Helen Dahlke in the Department of Land, Air, and Water Resources
Cleaned and engineered a large dataset of over 3 million records using R into daily, monthly, seasonal and annual subsets, ensuring data quality and accuracy for further analysis.
Conducted statistical analysis using methods such as the Mann-Kendall Trend test and Time series analysis to investigate perceived changes in temperature and precipitation patterns in Tulare Lake over the past 30 years.
Visualized the data using ggplot2, creating clear and informative graphs that helped to illustrate patterns and trends in the data.
Interpreted the statistical results and provided insights on climate-related topics. These insights were adopted for public education to help increase awareness and understanding of climate-related issues.
Selected Projects
- An emulated firebase system using Flask and MongoDB.
This system supports CURD commends (PUT, GET, DELETE, POST, PATCH) and a web user interface. The project is deployed on an EC2 instance and can be accessed through my website (www.xtcpete.com)